commemorates the birthday celebration of Guru Nanak Dev ji the very first Sikh guru and the creator of Sikhism. It is one of the most spiritual festivals of the Sikhs area. The celebration is commemorated with great religious fervor, dedication and commitment throughout India, mostly in the states of Punjab, Haryana and also abroad.

This holy celebration is observed on the moon day in the month of Kartik based on the Hindu schedule. The Expert Nanak Jayanti begins with the reading of the guru Granth Sahib, the divine book of the Sikhs in the Gurudwara non-stop for 2 days. This recitation of the guru Granth is referred to as Akhand Path and also this recitation ends on the day of the celebration.
gurupurab Day prior to Expert Nanak Jayanti, a spiritual procession or Prabhat Pheri is executed in the early morning that is lead by the Panj Pyares, the five armed guards.

These guards head the procession bring the Sikh flag known as the Nishan Sahib. They also bring the Guru Granth Sahib that is well set in a Palki  ornamented with blossoms. The procession begins with the gurudwaras and profits in the direction of the close to by localities.
 While the procession passes the local residences, the devotees sing the carolers and also deal desserts and tea to the people in the procession. 'Gatka' groups (martial arts) show mock-battles with the conventional tools.

The course of the procession is decorated with flags, blossoms as well as spiritual posters. Banners are likewise posted depicting different facets of Sikhism. On the day of Guru Nanak Jayanti, celebrations start early in the morning at around 4 or 5 a.m. Early morning hymns, referred to as Asa-di-Var, as well as hymns from the Sikh scriptures are sung, which are after that complied with by Katha, or the presentation of the katha. (guru nanak jayanti 2022)


This includes religious and historical talks and recitation of poems to recognize the Guru. The Gurudwara hall also performs the Kirtan-Darbars and Amrit Sanchar, gurpurab 2022
 ceremonies complied with by an unique area lunch, or Langar. This lunch is organized by the volunteers at the Gurudwara.

The Sikhs take into consideration distributing cost-free sweets as well as lunch as a component of seva as well as bhakti (devotion). The food is served to all people irrespective of caste or religion. Unique pious food or Prasad known as Kara Prasad is then provided to every person existing in the Gurudwara.
The gurudwaras and the residences are decorated with earthen lights as well as candle lights at night.

Religious songs played by regional bands, passionate Bhangra dancing (Punjabi dancing type) and the vibrant individual drum gamers include in the shade of the event. The guards do combating skills and also marital arts. Golden Holy Place in Amritsar is the piece de resistance throughout this festival that is commemorated with splendor and fare. 

History of Guru Nanak ji

Guru Nanak was born on April 15, 1469 in a Bedi Kshatriya family members in the town of Rai Bhoi di Talwandi now called Nanakan Sahib near Lahore in Pakistan.
Expert Nanak ji is the very first of the 10 Sikh guru. Nanak made use of to rest with divine males, pandits as well as mullahs as well as spend hrs with them in lengthy discussions. Nanak was a terrific seer, saint, mystic, respected poet and unique singer of God's laudation. His only message was to spread out love, tranquility, reality and also renaissance. Also today, Sikhs all throughout the world practice Expert Nanak's preaching to declare their belief in the owner's trainings. Expert Nanak Jayanti is commemorated with satisfaction, honor and also wonderful regard.

Parties happen on huge range over the Sikh neighborhoods and Food types are the piece de resistance of this celebration. The vital part of any kind of Gurudwara is the Langar or Free Kitchen Area. Here the food is cooked by the sevardars or volunteers as well as is offered to all without discrimination. The method of offering food to all was begun with Guru Nanak's Sikhs at Kartarpur.



The Guru's Langar is always vegan, as well as typically is made up of easy, nourishing food. Rigorous guidelines of health as well as cleanliness are very important when preparing the Langar (i.e., cleaned hands, never tasting it while food preparation). People with communicable illness must not participate in the preparation of Langar. It is also recommended that Gurbani be stated during the preparation.

The entire Sikh area gets participated in truth joyful mood. Delicious specials are also prepared on this divine celebration and distributed like the Atte ka Seera, Malai Ladoo, Jabeli and Kaju barfi. Atte ka Seera: Atte ka Seera or wheat flour halva. It's such a basic as well as earthy treat.

The sweet fragrance that wheat flour rises when you are toasting it in ghee will put you in the best state of mind to enjoy this unique occassion. Malai Ladoo is a north Indian snack constructed from paneer as well as milk. Kaju Barfi is made with cashew nuts soaked in water overnight (it is not prepared making use of milk) and ground the following day; then sugar, saffron (kesar) and also various other dried fruits are included. It is generally white/yellow in color. If pistachios are utilized in the preparation, it can be environment-friendly in color.




